and I have just left the warm we set
where decisions are made on Israel
Security on our most sensitive
interests I brief the secretary on
strategic developments in our region and
the chief of staff together with the IDF
leadership shared our our
operations
defense coroporation and US support in
the Pentagon in the White House in the
Congress ensure freedom of operation and
enforce our
capabilities in fact
today we will receive the second
aircraft carrying essential munition to
the
IDF
us deployment of assets on land in air
and at Sea sends a strong message on to
both our partners and enemies in the
region on behalf of Israel's defense
establishment and of be on behalf of our
citizens Mr secretary thank you very
much let me remind you all our audience
who is the enemy our neighbors is Hamas
the Isis of
Gaza an organization enjoying the
Iranian
payroll I cannot let the world
forget the brutal attacks Hamas
terrorists
conduct against Israeli children Israeli
women Israeli
eldery and entire
families murder rape
kidnapping this is what we face in this
war this is a war on the existence of
Israel as a prosperous State as a
democratic State as the homeland of the
Jewish
people this is a war on
freedom and on our common values and we
are on the front
line we will keep fighting and we will
win this war we will
prevail with your permission Mr
secretary I'll say few words in
Hebrew
at
you're watching Al we're bringing you
live of a press conference that's
happening in Tel Aviv between Israel's
defense minister y Gant who's just been
speaking there talking in Hebrew for the
latter part of his statement earlier on
he was referring to the the fact that us
support was insuring ensuring freedom to
operate for the Israeli military he said
that they would receive a second
aircraft carrying essential equipment to
the Israeli military we're going to go
to V Marx who live for us in Tel Aviv we
are waiting for us defense secretary uh
Lloyd Austin to speak uh villm clearly
uh uh you have Galant there making it
very plain that they are relying on us
support and as far as he's concerned the
US is firmly behind Israel in
this yeah and echoing Rob very much what
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu said
yesterday comparing Hamas to Isis
talking about the support that they
allege uh h Mass has been receiving from
the Iranian government that second
aircraft arriving he said will likely
also contain further Munitions the first
aircraft arriving focused on essentially
bolstering the capabilities of Israel's
Iron Dome system we know that US Special
Operations teams are already working
with some of their Israeli counterparts
on both intelligence and planning
strategy planning for a potential ground
incursion and other operations ongoing
inside Gaza really interesting to hear
what Lloyd Austin will have say when it
comes to the deterrence efforts that the
United States has already tried to put
in place very soon after those attacks
began on Saturday President Biden
ordering at least six US Naval vessels
to the Eastern Mediterranean including
an aircraft carrier and many guided
missile Cruisers and destroyers along
with dozens of different aircraft that
have been rebasing all over air bases in
the region part of an effort they made
very clear the Americans to try and
deter both non-state and state actors
that would be groups like Hezbollah
governments like Iran in their words
from interfering in this current crisis
both linkoln and Biden previously saying
they had one word for those considering
that kind of interference don't Rob vill
just while we're waiting for Lloyd
Austin to speak and he may be speaking
fairly in fact I think he Lloyd Austin
has begun speaking now let's listen to
Lloyd Austin we'll come back to you
close touch but it's good to see you
again in person and it's good to be back
in
Israel even during such terrible
days as a US Secretary of Defense I am
here in
person to make something Crystal
Clear America's support for Israel is
Ironclad and I extend my deepest
condolences to the Israeli people for
those killed or wounded in this terrible
Slaughter by
Hamas I'm also here in solidarity with
all the family still living the waking
nightmare of not knowing the fate of
their loved
ones and we will continue to coordinate
closely with Israel to help secure the
release of the innocent men women and
children in the clutches of
amas including American
citizens now Israel is a small
country a place where everybody knows
everybody
and in times of
trial the intimacy of your
Society deepens the intimacy of your
grief but that's not a
weakness it is a profound
strength and in times of
testing Israelis know what to
do over this awful week we've seen
Israeli hotels and
homes Tak in those who've had to to
flee we've seen long lineups to donate
blood we've seen whatsapps explode with
messages as people raced to support
Neighbors in
anguish and per perhaps because I'm a
retired
General I was especially moved by the
story of a retired General named Noam
T-Bone his son called him on Saturday
from his home near Gaza to say that
Hamas terrorists had stormed their
caboots and were closing
in and the retired General jumped into
his car in Tel Aviv and raced toward the
combat zone he linked up with other
Fighters and rescued his son his
daughter-in-law and his
granddaughters and when the general
arrived at their
house one of his granddaughters just
said Grandpa's here
and these are arrays of Hope in a
terrible
week and in times like these Sometimes
the best that a a the best thing that a
friend can do is just to show
up and to get to
work now this is no time for
neutrality or for false
equivalence or for excuses for the
inexcusable there is never any
justification for
terrorism and that's especially
true after the this Rampage by
Hamas and anyone who wants lasting peace
and security for this
region must condemn and isolate
Hamas Hamas does not speak for the
Palestinian people or their legitimate
hopes for dignity security and statehood
and peace along side
Israel as a former commander of Central
Command the deliberate cruelty of Hamas
vividly reminds me of
Isis
bloodthirsty
fanatical and
hateful and like Isis Hamas has nothing
to offer but
zealotry
bigotry and death
the world has just witnessed a great
evil the deadliest attacks on civilians
in the history of the state of
Israel and the bloodiest day in Jewish
history since the end of the
Holocaust so make no
mistake the United States will make sure
that Israel has what it needs to defend
itself and Israel has a right to protect
its people
you know and there are many phone calls
this week President Biden has told prime
minister Netanyahu that the United
States would also respond swiftly and
decisively to such a ma massive
terrorist
assault and the President also
underscored that democracies like
ours are stronger and more
secure when we
uphold the laws of war
terrorists like Hamas deliberately
Target
civilians but democracies
don't this is a time for resolve and not
revenge for purpose and not
panic and for security and not
surrender at President Biden's direction
we have moved urgently to respond to
this
crisis and to send to send a strong
message M of
deterrence the USS Gerald R Ford carrier
strike group is now in the
region led by the largest aircraft
carrier in the
world we've augmented us fighter
aircraft squadrons in the Middle
East and the US Department of Defense
stands fully ready to deploy additional
assets if
necessary as President Biden has said
for any country for any group or anyone
thinking about trying to take advantage
of this
atrocity to try to widen the conflict or
to spill more
blood we have just one
word
don't the world is
watching and so are
we and we aren't going
anywhere we will remain in close contact
with our valued Partners across the
region
and security assistance from the
Department of Defense is
already rapidly flowing into
Israel that includes
Munitions and air defense
capabilities and other equipment and
resources it also includes more
interceptors for Iron Dome to save
israeli's Li Israeli lives and we will
continue to ensure that Israel has what
it needs to keep itself secure
now Hamas attacked at a time of global
challenge but the United States is the
most powerful country in the
world and we remain fully able to
project power and uphold our commitments
and direct resources to multiple
theaters so we will stand with
Israel even as we stand with
Ukraine
United States can walk in chug gum at
the same
time and US SEC security assistance to
Israel will flow in at the speed of
war and as this harrowing week draws to
a
close and as Shabbat draws
near we stand
together and we stand
strong United States has Israel's back
and that is not
negotiable and it never will
be and after this terrible week I wish
you and all the people of Israel shabbat
shalom thank
you we'll be starting with the question
starting with Alon B Channel
13 thank you uh Mr secretary um your
presence in the Eastern Mediterranean
clearly projects power but should Israel
be attacked from the north from hisbah
in Lebanon will you be willing to
exercise your force and join the
fighting you I ordered additional assets
to the region to bolster
deterrence and again the message that we
would send to any country or group
thinking to take advantage of this
situation and white and widen the
conflict
don't I won't speculate on on anything
that could happen in the future
I will just tell
you clearly that the United States will
continue to support Israel's right to
defend
itself please a question to the defense
minister
make sure that this threat will never be
there on our
borders and we will be
ready quite ready for
that Matt Syler
ABC
thank you both for doing this secretary
Austin the US Administration has told
Israel to avoid causing civilian
casualties and to uphold what you called
just now the laws of war given how Hamas
fights deliberately launching operations
from dense civilian areas how could
Israel permanently end the terrorist
threat posed by Hamas without inevitably
risking many civilian lives and as we
watch the civilian death toll in Gaza
rise while Israel conducts its
counterattacks and perhaps a ground
invasion do you believe the moral
culpability for those Palestinian deaths
belongs to Israel Hamas or
both I'll leave it to Israel to uh to
talk about its potential plans and uh
its approach to uh conducting
operations uh Matt I'll just uh um say
again that Israel has a right to defend
itself and we will support Israel's
right to defend itself we will continue
to flow and security
assistance
and I've worked with Israeli forces over
the years over many years as you know I
wore a uniform for 41
years my experience in working with the
Israeli forces is they are professional
they're disciplined and they are focused
on the right
things and so I expect that uh going
forward they will continue to exhibit
that same degree of professionalism that
we've seen in the past but but you know
Matt we've seen this
before uh the International Community
fought Isis uh who in some cases was uh
was embedded deeply in builtup areas and
that International
Coalition uh fought
Valiant and and protected civilians and
created corridors for uh humanitarian uh
movement even in the midst of a of a
pretty significant fight so again this
is a professional Force
it is well-led and I I have every
expectation that it will be
disciplined thank you and for Minister
Gant have you seen evidence that Iran
was directly involved in planning or
executing the recent attack on your
country or any signs that either Iran or
its proxies are seeking to exploit the
situation and if you do come to see
signs of an imminent attack on Israel
are you in favor of preemptive
strikes Iran
balah and Hamas is one axis an axis of
Evil everything is directed generally
from Iran the permission is given by
Iran the money is supplied by
Iran and the ideas are shaped in Iran
therefore it doesn't matter if they give
or didn't give
the permission but the idea is an
Iranian idea as to the actions future
actions of IDF I will uh stay
confidential for good
reasons thank
youan
Mas Mr secretary thank you for this um
house um Foreign Affairs shair Mike m
said that we know that Egypt had warned
Israel 3 days prior to that event like
something like this could happen we
don't know how we missed it we don't
know how Israel missed it so can you
tell us what really the US knew before
this
attack what I can tell you is that if we
had known or if we know of a pending
attack against an ally we would clearly
inform that
Ally uh but what we're focused on now
Solomon is we're f focused on making
sure that Israel has what it needs to
defend its Sovereign territory and to
protect its citizens and the minister
and I spent uh a good bit of time
talking today about what those
requirements are and what we need to do
to urgently meet those
needs
for
we
concentrate for the time being to follow
my instructions and to achieve Victory
and to defeat Hamas as I said before
this is the decision now we will achieve
the Victory and we will beat Hamas last
question from Tom
secretary thanks for doing this Mr
secretary as you just stated you were
involved in the major effort to Stomp
and eradicate Isis when you talk to the
minister and others and that experience
courses through you what kind of Lessons
Learned do you feel or might be helpful
in this case especially dealing with
that whole Urban situation that you just
referred to the proposed the evacuation
of civilians from Gaza those kind of
challenges what kind of ideas and
thoughts that you have that you can
share
please well thanks Tom I would tell you
that
um encountering
Isis I felt as if we were staring evil
in the eye it was truly
evil and what we've seen from
Hamas uh it takes that evil to another
level and so uh that's the first thing
that we need to we need to remember and
and consider
there are a number of things that uh
that we talked about today that you
there are some lessons learned that we
we be more than happy to share with our
our allies here uh in in terms of
operating effectively in uh in dense
Urban Terrain creating uh safe
humanitarian corridors uh making sure
that we're thoughtful about how we shape
the battle uh and making sure that uh
you know our objectives are well defined
uh and uh and so um we'll we'll continue
to share uh the lessons that we've
learned over the years and of course as
the Israelis prosecute this fight uh we
will learn lessons from them and so I I
think it's this great uh teamwork that
has served us both well o over the years
and we'll continue that Mr Minister uh
there's been some confusion over the
24-hour deadline that Israel announced
to for civilians in Gaza to to move
South to evacuate and move South uh
there was a 24-hour deadline
initially reported and then there's been
reports that Israel has modified that
have left it open in other words not
sticking to 24 hours of a deadline would
you please clarify specifically is there
going to be a deadline what can you tell
us about the deadline and what will
Israel do if anything to help civilians
move some of the people have said that's
homicide problem it's not our
problem well first of all I would like
to remind all of us what happened less
than a week ago 1200 Israelis were
brutally murdered
raped burned alive kids were tied one to
the other and shot at the hand this is
Hamas this is the Isis of Gaza and as
the
secretary said they took evil to another
level that's first issue second Israel
never and ever will
not shoot civilians in purpose therefore
we are asking all the civilians in Gaza
City to go south of Gaza and the reason
is that because we don't want to have
them the common flash of the terrorist
is the Civil population therefore we
need to separate them so those who want
to save their life please go south we
are going to destroy Hamas
infrastructures Hamas headquarters Hamas
military establishment and take this
phenomena out of Gaza and out of the
they cannot live among human civilized
people but 24 hours is that deadline
still holding the 24 hours thank you
very much we're done today thank
you hi you're watching Al ja we're
bringing you a a press conference from
Tel Aviv between us defense secretary
Lloyd Austin and the man who was
speaking at just at the end there
Israeli defense minister yov Gand they
covered a lot of ground uh in that very
long uh press conference but
predominantly the message was that the
US is standing behind Israel following
the attack by Hamas uh us defense
secretary Lloyd Austin saying American
support for Israel is
uh iron clad he said that Israel's um
this was a time of neutrality he said
and not false equivalence they also both
made comparisons between Hamas and Isis
also known as isil saying that Hamas was
essentially the same as Isis as I say
also known as Isis
Lloyd Austin said this was a time for
resolve and not Revenge they also went
into some of the background Logistics
that the US was going to be offering uh
to Israel in its fight we're joined by
Abdullah alari and he's associate
professor of history at the Middle East
at Georgetown University in in Qatar
he's been here with us as this press
conference has been uh going on it's
quite clear that the US is determined to
show that it it stands uh full for
square if you like behind Israel
nevertheless it is in a kind of
difficult situation in one sense isn't
it because it wasn't long ago that we
were talking about the abrham Accords
and the growing closeness if you like
between Israel and for example Saudi
Arabia a normalization um as it's called
of relations with with the Arab world um
given everything that's happened where
do you think that stands now well I mean
I think that policy was based on a
certain logic that the Palestinian uh
plight could be completely ignored by
the US by Israel and increasingly among
all of these Arab states who have made
the choice to normalize I think the
events of the last week uh have shown
that you simply can't ignore the plight
of millions of people who are either
besieged or under under direct military
occupation or um the threat of settler
violence and who are having their land
appropriated and are being denied their
rights and so forth I think what we're
seeing now uh you know we have to be
really clear about the fact that the
United States is now offering
full-throated support uh for a state who
is currently engaged in the killing of
civilians we've seen over 500 children
in Gaza killed we're seeing the
targeting of First Responders we've seen
that the UN workers who are there on the
ground are being killed journalists are
being killed um and so I think the idea
that the United States is is still
continuing to offer the support also at
a time when the government is not just
openly you know some of its members are
openly threatening uh genocidal
intentions but are actually poised in a
position to do so and I think this
threat against 1.1 million people in the
north of the country brings back Echo to
the founding of Israel all the way back
75 years ago when so many people uh were
displaced I mean just to give you a
sense of the of the kind of comparison
at that point it was 750,000
Palestinians who were forced from their
own land now we're talking about 1.1
million people and doing it in in 24
hours not in a in a span of one year
which is what originally occurred let's
not forget also that 70% of the
population of Gaz are either Direct
surviv of the nakba from 1948 or their
descendants and so we're talking about
also Refugee population that has already
been displaced at least once uh in the
course of their lifetimes and so I think
what we're seeing um just in the last
day has been a a really terrifying
escalation abdulla thank you very much
we're going to leave it there for the
moment Aran thank you very much indeed
for your time